So let's jump into it.
And one of the things
at the very beginning,
I'll kind of just put this up again for
a moment.
We've got three different repos that
we're gonna play around with today.
And also there is this tool called
Electron Fiddle that you can play
around with.
I have it installed here, I'll kind
of just show you cause I think it
like highlights a little bit of
what the kind of processes are.
So we'll kind of take a look
at one of these electronic
fiddles because it's a very,
very simple view of an electron app.
And then we're gonna jump into
this tool called electron forge.
Like I mentioned earlier,
electron forge is a bunch of the kind of
standard tools and setup because,
in the same way with create react app,
could you wire up your
own web pack by hand?
And maybe you want to, but
you probably don't, right?
And could you get all these things set up?
And for instance, a question about
auto-updating stuff along those lines.
It's kind of a lot of the best practices
and boilerplate kind of set up for you.
And so we'll use that for
most of our time together cuz I would say,
unless you are porting a,
I won't even say legacy, but
an existing application and can you port
it to Electron Forge, you can, right.
But, generally speaking for
starting Electron apps,
I would like highly recommend the setup in
Electron Forge, otherwise you will fight.
And be copying and pasting stuff off a
stack overflow to build this setup 'cause
eventually you will probably want
some amount of a build tool, right?
Regardless of where you fall on
the vanilla.js to [LAUGH] react spectrum,
right?
At some point,
insofar especially that we don't write
to the file system anymore,
having some kind of module system or
Bundler makes sense at some point or
another.
But this is the kind of like
hello world of an electron app.
If we open up Electron fiddle.
And I think having the world's simplest
version kind of gives you a sense of what
we're getting into as we kinda go into
one of these Electron forge apps.
So to kinda take a quick tour.
You start out with the Electron library
and could you do an NPM and Knit and
NPM install electron.
Absolutely, right?
That is theoretically all that's happening
in this version without Electron
forge is simply cool,
we NPM installed electron, right?
And generally speaking,
when you use electron to start up the app,
it will look in your package json for
your main file, right?
In this case that is main.js, and
that is the initial entry point.
The same way for
a node process where you might have
a main file that's either index.js or
server.js, that when you run an NPM start
that is equally as true for Electron.
And in electron once you're
running it within electron itself,
you've got a whole bunch
of these kinda modules.
Now, back in the day,
you had to do a lot more thinking about
which ones were available
in the main process and
which ones are available
in the renderer process.
That newer security posture
makes your life a lot easier
cuz very few of them are available
in the renderer process.
Right, and that's where, like I said
before, a lot of our time together is
gonna be dancing on that like,
hey, main process has access to,
can read power settings, can figure out
when the AC goes on versus battery power.
Or can read and write to the file system,
or directly talk to a data,
all that stuff, a lot of times you
render a process being like, hey,
main process, I need this,
can you get this for me?
And then it will send it back over, right?
And so less of trying to think about
which ones are available where that was
a lot harder of a lift before.
But now, none of them.
None of them, like four of them, right?
And it'll become increasingly
clear which ones they are.
The IPC ability to talk
to the main process,
like spinning up other,
smaller browser contexts and
clipboard, it might be one more,
but, there's four of them.
So we've got the ability
to pull an electron and
then you can see we're
pulling in two things.
App, and then browser window.
I will let you take a wild guess
what browser window does, right?
And when you call new browser window,
what happens?
In there we have the width and
the height of the browser window and
there are a whole bunch
of other options in here.
There is the maximum width,
the minimum width, so
you can very much control the window,
it's not just like with somebody
else's browser where it's good luck.
Think about every
responsive design viewport,
you can have some amount of control.
You can also assume you're building for
the desktop as well.
As web preferences, there are things
of do you wanna disable web security?
I'm gonna tell you, you don't,
you make your own choices.
And this is where we say
where the preload script is.
That is that one script that has a little
bit of ability to grab some things from
the main process and has a little bit more
leeway than the actual browser context
does right before you go in, and so
we'll look at the preload.js in a moment.
Then next,
you just load up an HTML file, right?
And that is effectively the entry
point for your application, right?
You can choose whether or not you wanna
use a framework or something along
those lines but you get that initial
HTML file that kinda starts out,
and we'll peek at that too,
just to see as well.
And the cool part is you have full control
over everything, you can choose to
immediately open the DevTools,
there's a bunch of options there as well.
As you go in you have full control.
You can even say if
process m = development,
then open it by default,
so on and so forth, right?
A lot of even production electron apps
still let you open up the DevTools, right?
I'm pretty sure, in a number of them,
you're still allowed to kind of
inspect and stuff along those lines.
When we build custom menus,
custom application menus,
you can choose whether or
not you wanna expose that, right?
So it's like, you can lock that
down a little bit more if you want.
So this is a function called CreateWindow
but all it does is create a new window.
When the app is ready we'll go ahead and
create a window,
as you can see there are some like OS
accoutrements in here then we will talk
a lot more about this as we go along,
right, even if you're a Windows like.
Yeah, you can ignore some of them, and
you'll have to think about other Windows
things, but
there's some just general behavior.
And that's again, I would say 90% might be
heard properly, but the lion's share is
the process model and the other part is
getting your app not to feel weird, right?
And so for instance, if you close
the last window on a Windows app or
Linux app, you quit the process.
If you close the last window
on a macOS application,
it still hangs open and
you can open a new window, right?
And so you can see that on activate,
on macOS, which is the only time you could
activate it when there are no windows,
go ahead and create a window again, right?
Which is I click the icon,
it opens back up.
And then on windows all closed,
if it's not macOS,
so darwin,
no js if you say process.platform,
no js will think that,
Linux I think is just Linux.
Windows might be win 32 regardless of,
whether or not you're on a 64 bit.
I don't make the rules around here.
I mean, listen, macOS is darwin, right?
Cuz that is the bsd shell that is
based on, and so we say, okay, for
everything else if you're not macOS,
quit, right?
And we'll see what this
full thing does as well.
But that's our main processes,
right now mostly all that is doing
is identifying a preload.js and
index.html and then spinning that up and
then handing some amount of
accoutrements around that.
Looking at the preload and
I will hide main.js for a moment.
There's a few things to note here.
One is of the, and I remember what
the fourth thing was that the pre
render process has is access to
the process object from node.
Right, so it can read information about
the environment that it's running on,
as well as in this case,
like, process.versions,
which is put there by electron.
But it also has access to the DOM.
It's that kind of intermediary between
the main process about to go into
the renderer process and get a few last
things back, the ability to communicate
back to the main process which we will
spend most of the first app talking about.
And then a few other things but
it also has access to the DOM but,
as you can guess by
the name of this process,
it is running before we've even
loaded index.html, it is basically,
we have spun up a chromium process and
we have done nothing to it yet.
We have not loaded in an HTML file.
We have not even began to parse anything.
This is why you still have
access to a few last things,
which is there's still effectively,
we're just,
just outta the main process and
nothing has really been grabbed onto yet.
So it is still roughly safe to figure out
what are the last few things we wanna
expose to the renderer process to kind
of have that connection back and forth.
Cool.
And then the renderer process in this
case is just a script tag, right?
And it's a normal,
what you think about as client side code,
it might be the end result of your webpack
or Bundler or something along those lines.
The thing that you are always
used to as frontend engineers,
this is where we normally live,
this is what we normally do.
This one is mostly actually replacing the
DOM from the preload script cuz it needs
access to process.
But you could theoretically make just
a few properties on the process object
available, and we will look at that
when we build our first app together.
Cool.
And then lastly, we've got the HTML file,
which shouldn't be a lot of things
that you haven't seen before.
Electron will get mad at you if
you don't use a decent CSP policy.
Which can get tricky sometimes
because if you're using webpack,
it wants to do stuff with like hot
module reloading and WebSockets so
you got to play around with that a little
bit, but it is basically the DOM and
then it pulls in our renderer.js,
so on and so forth.
This is the bare minimum one would need
for an electron application, right?
And again, you could literally just do
an npm and knit, npm install electron
setup these four files and
you've got an electron app effectively.